Readme.md, before:

# GitHub Actions Importer IssueOps

The GitHub Actions Importer IssueOps repository demonstrates the functionality necessary to run GitHub Actions Importer commands through Actions and Issues, allowing you to migrate your CI/CD workflows without needing to install software on your local machine. This approach is especially useful for organizations that want to enable self-service migrations to GitHub Actions.

[GitHub Actions Importer](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/migrating-to-github-actions/automating-migration-with-github-actions-importer) helps plan, forecast, and automate the migration of Azure DevOps, Bamboo, CircleCI, GitLab, Jenkins, and Travis CI pipelines to GitHub Actions. GitHub Actions Importer is distributed as a CLI and offers various commands you can use to migrate pipelines:

- `audit`: An audit will fetch all the pipelines defined in an existing CI server, convert each pipeline to its equivalent in GitHub Actions, and write a report that summarizes how complete of a migration the GitHub Actions Importer can provide.
- `dry-run`: A dry run will fetch a single pipeline definition, convert it to its equivalent in GitHub Actions, and write a file (or files) to disk containing the converted workflow.
- `migrate`: A migration will fetch a single pipeline definition, convert it to its equivalent in GitHub Actions, and open a pull request to a repository with the converted workflow.

## Getting started

Complete the following steps:

1. Create a new repository using this repository as the template by clicking [here](https://github.com/actions/importer-issue-ops/generate).
2. Create the following labels in this new repository, if they are not already present: `jenkins`, `azure-devops`, `circle-ci`, `gitlab`, `travis-ci`, `bamboo`, and `actions-importer-running`.
3. Add the repository secrets described below that are relevant to the CI/CD providers being migrated.

### Repository settings

The repository that is created from this template must have one of the following settings enabled:

- Any action or reusable workflow can be used, regardless of who authored it or where it is defined.
- Any action or reusable workflow that matches the specified criteria, plus those defined in a repository within the enterprise, can be used.
   - Allow actions created by GitHub
   - Allow actions by marketplace verified creators or icnlude `ruby/setup-ruby@v1` in the allowed list of actions and reusable workflows.

See the [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository#managing-github-actions-permissions-for-your-repository) for more information related to these settings.

### All CI/CD providers

The following secrets are required:

- `GH_ACCESS_TOKEN`: GitHub personal access token to create pull requests (requires `repo` and `workflow` scopes).

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `GH_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your GitHub instance (only required if it is **not** <https://github.com>).

### Azure DevOps

The following secrets are required:

- `AZURE_DEVOPS_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the Azure DevOps instance. This token requires the following scopes:
  - Build (Read)
  - Agent Pools (Read)
  - Code (Read)
  - Release (Read)
  - Service Connections (Read)
  - Task Groups (Read)
  - Variable Groups (Read)

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `AZURE_DEVOPS_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your Azure DevOps instance (only required if it is **not** <https://dev.azure.com>).

### CircleCI

The following secrets are required:

- `CIRCLE_CI_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the CircleCI instance.
- `CIRCLE_CI_SOURCE_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access pipeline files stored in GitHub.

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `CIRCLE_CI_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your CircleCI instance (only required if it is **not** <https://circleci.com>).

### GitLab

The following secrets are required:

- `GITLAB_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the GitLab instance (requires `read_api` scope).

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `GITLAB_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your GitLab instance (only required if it is **not** <https://gitlab.com>).

### Jenkins

The following secrets are required:

- `JENKINSFILE_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token used to retrieve the contents of a `Jenkinsfile` stored in the build repository (requires `repo` scope).
- `JENKINS_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The access token used to view Jenkins resources.
- `JENKINS_USERNAME`: The username of the user's access token.
- `JENKINS_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your Jenkins instance.

### Travis CI

The following secrets are required:

- `TRAVIS_CI_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the Travis CI instance.
- `TRAVIS_CI_SOURCE_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access pipeline files stored in GitHub.

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `TRAVIS_CI_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your Travis CI instance (only required if it is **not** <https://travis-ci.com>).

### Bamboo

The following secrets are required:

- `BAMBOO_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the Bamboo instance.
- `BAMBOO_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your Bamboo instance.
### Bitbucket

The following secrets are required:

- `BITBUCKET_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the BitBucket instance.

## Pipeline migration

Once configured, pipelines can be migrated to GitHub Actions by opening an issue with the relevant issue template and following the instructions.

### Custom transformers

Custom transformers can be used to customize the behavior of Actions Importer to meet your specific use-case. Custom transformers can be used to:

- Convert items that are not automatically converted.
- Convert items that were automatically converted using different actions.
- Convert environment variable values differently.
- Convert references to runners to use a different runner name in Actions.

Custom transformers must be defined in a file with the `.rb` file extension within a directory named `transformers` in your IssueOps repository. Alternatively, you can provide specific custom transformers to be used by appending the `--custom-transformers` option in the issue comment used to trigger Actions Importer. For example:

```sh
/migrate ... --custom-transformers my-transformers.rb
```

You can learn more about authoring custom transformers by completing the self-guided learning exercises below:

- Custom transformers for Azure DevOps pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/azure_devops/5-custom-transformers.md)
- Custom transformers for CircleCI pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/circle_ci/5-custom-transformers.md)
- Custom transformers for GitLab pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/gitlab/5-custom-transformers.md)
- Custom transformers for Jenkins pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/jenkins/5-custom-transformers.md)
- Custom transformers for Travis CI pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/travis/5-custom-transformers.md)

## Configuring IssueOps with GitHub Enterprise Server and self-hosted runners

This template can be configured to be used with GitHub Enterprise Server deployments and self-hosted runners by:

1. Updating the [ruby/setup-ruby](https://github.com/ruby/setup-ruby) actions in [issue_ops.yml](./.github/workflows/issue_ops.yml) and [ci.yml](./.github/workflows/ci.yml) to ensure the action runs on the correct OS type.
2. Updating the `runs-on:` statements in [ruby/setup-ruby](https://github.com/ruby/setup-ruby) actions in [issue_ops.yml](./.github/workflows/issue_ops.yml) to dictate the appropriate label(s) for your self-hosted runner.
3. For GitHub Enterprise Server deployments, this repository should be published and [converted to a template repository](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-template-repository) in your GHES deployment.

## Privacy statement

GitHub Actions Importer will collect anonymous telemetry when running to help us improve the tool. This can be disabled by adding the `--no-telemetry` flag to any command provided to the GitHub Actions Importer CLI.

Additionally, by using this repository you agree to GitHub's [Privacy Statement](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement#data-retention-and-deletion-of-data) and the [additional terms for Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/github-terms/github-terms-for-additional-products-and-features#actions).

Commit message:

chore: Update GitHub Actions workflow to use new GitHub App token action

Readme.md, after:

# GitHub Actions Importer IssueOps

The GitHub Actions Importer IssueOps repository demonstrates the functionality necessary to run GitHub Actions Importer commands through Actions and Issues, allowing you to migrate your CI/CD workflows without needing to install software on your local machine. This approach is especially useful for organizations that want to enable self-service migrations to GitHub Actions.

[GitHub Actions Importer](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/migrating-to-github-actions/automating-migration-with-github-actions-importer) helps plan, forecast, and automate the migration of Azure DevOps, Bamboo, CircleCI, GitLab, Jenkins, and Travis CI pipelines to GitHub Actions. GitHub Actions Importer is distributed as a CLI and offers various commands you can use to migrate pipelines:

- `audit`: An audit will fetch all the pipelines defined in an existing CI server, convert each pipeline to its equivalent in GitHub Actions, and write a report that summarizes how complete of a migration the GitHub Actions Importer can provide.
- `dry-run`: A dry run will fetch a single pipeline definition, convert it to its equivalent in GitHub Actions, and write a file (or files) to disk containing the converted workflow.
- `migrate`: A migration will fetch a single pipeline definition, convert it to its equivalent in GitHub Actions, and open a pull request to a repository with the converted workflow.

## Getting started

Complete the following steps:

1. Create a Github App at the organizational level with the following permissions: Contents Read/Write, Metadata Read, Pull Requests Read/Write, Workflows Read/Write. Note the created App's ID and private key.
Create a new repository using this repository as the template by clicking [here](https://github.com/actions/importer-issue-ops/generate).
2. Create the following labels in this new repository, if they are not already present: `jenkins`, `azure-devops`, `circle-ci`, `gitlab`, `travis-ci`, `bamboo`, and `actions-importer-running`.
3. Add the repository secrets described below that are relevant to the CI/CD providers being migrated.


### Repository settings

The repository that is created from this template must have one of the following settings enabled:

- Any action or reusable workflow can be used, regardless of who authored it or where it is defined.
- Any action or reusable workflow that matches the specified criteria, plus those defined in a repository within the enterprise, can be used.
   - Allow actions created by GitHub
   - Allow actions by marketplace verified creators or icnlude `ruby/setup-ruby@v1` in the allowed list of actions and reusable workflows.

See the [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository#managing-github-actions-permissions-for-your-repository) for more information related to these settings.

### All CI/CD providers

The following secrets are required:

- `GH_APPLICATION_ID`: The App ID of the GitHub App created earlier.
- `GH_APPLICATION_KEY`: The value of the created GitHub App's private key. Value should not include any blank lines at the end.

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `GH_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your GitHub instance (only required if it is **not** <https://github.com>).

### Azure DevOps

The following secrets are required:

- `AZURE_DEVOPS_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the Azure DevOps instance. This token requires the following scopes:
  - Build (Read)
  - Agent Pools (Read)
  - Code (Read)
  - Release (Read)
  - Service Connections (Read)
  - Task Groups (Read)
  - Variable Groups (Read)

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `AZURE_DEVOPS_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your Azure DevOps instance (only required if it is **not** <https://dev.azure.com>).

### CircleCI

The following secrets are required:

- `CIRCLE_CI_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the CircleCI instance.
- `CIRCLE_CI_SOURCE_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access pipeline files stored in GitHub.

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `CIRCLE_CI_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your CircleCI instance (only required if it is **not** <https://circleci.com>).

### GitLab

The following secrets are required:

- `GITLAB_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the GitLab instance (requires `read_api` scope).

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `GITLAB_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your GitLab instance (only required if it is **not** <https://gitlab.com>).

### Jenkins

The following secrets are required:

- `JENKINSFILE_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token used to retrieve the contents of a `Jenkinsfile` stored in the build repository (requires `repo` scope).
- `JENKINS_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The access token used to view Jenkins resources.
- `JENKINS_USERNAME`: The username of the user's access token.
- `JENKINS_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your Jenkins instance.

### Travis CI

The following secrets are required:

- `TRAVIS_CI_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the Travis CI instance.
- `TRAVIS_CI_SOURCE_GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access pipeline files stored in GitHub.

Optionally, the following secrets can be set:

- `TRAVIS_CI_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your Travis CI instance (only required if it is **not** <https://travis-ci.com>).

### Bamboo

The following secrets are required:

- `BAMBOO_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the Bamboo instance.
- `BAMBOO_INSTANCE_URL`: The base URL of your Bamboo instance.
### Bitbucket

The following secrets are required:

- `BITBUCKET_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The personal access token to access the BitBucket instance.

## Pipeline migration

Once configured, pipelines can be migrated to GitHub Actions by opening an issue with the relevant issue template and following the instructions.

### Custom transformers

Custom transformers can be used to customize the behavior of Actions Importer to meet your specific use-case. Custom transformers can be used to:

- Convert items that are not automatically converted.
- Convert items that were automatically converted using different actions.
- Convert environment variable values differently.
- Convert references to runners to use a different runner name in Actions.

Custom transformers must be defined in a file with the `.rb` file extension within a directory named `transformers` in your IssueOps repository. Alternatively, you can provide specific custom transformers to be used by appending the `--custom-transformers` option in the issue comment used to trigger Actions Importer. For example:

```sh
/migrate ... --custom-transformers my-transformers.rb
```

You can learn more about authoring custom transformers by completing the self-guided learning exercises below:

- Custom transformers for Azure DevOps pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/azure_devops/5-custom-transformers.md)
- Custom transformers for CircleCI pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/circle_ci/5-custom-transformers.md)
- Custom transformers for GitLab pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/gitlab/5-custom-transformers.md)
- Custom transformers for Jenkins pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/jenkins/5-custom-transformers.md)
- Custom transformers for Travis CI pipelines [exercise](https://github.com/actions/importer-labs/blob/main/travis/5-custom-transformers.md)

## Configuring IssueOps with GitHub Enterprise Server and self-hosted runners

This template can be configured to be used with GitHub Enterprise Server deployments and self-hosted runners by:

1. Updating the [ruby/setup-ruby](https://github.com/ruby/setup-ruby) actions in [issue_ops.yml](./.github/workflows/issue_ops.yml) and [ci.yml](./.github/workflows/ci.yml) to ensure the action runs on the correct OS type.
2. Updating the `runs-on:` statements in [ruby/setup-ruby](https://github.com/ruby/setup-ruby) actions in [issue_ops.yml](./.github/workflows/issue_ops.yml) to dictate the appropriate label(s) for your self-hosted runner.
3. For GitHub Enterprise Server deployments, this repository should be published and [converted to a template repository](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-template-repository) in your GHES deployment.

## Privacy statement

GitHub Actions Importer will collect anonymous telemetry when running to help us improve the tool. This can be disabled by adding the `--no-telemetry` flag to any command provided to the GitHub Actions Importer CLI.

Additionally, by using this repository you agree to GitHub's [Privacy Statement](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement#data-retention-and-deletion-of-data) and the [additional terms for Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/github-terms/github-terms-for-additional-products-and-features#actions).
